The Joe Rogan experience. Well, you've done underwater exploration as well.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> yeah. What have you done.
There? I live for two weeks, uh, in the bottom of the sea. Oh, Jesus.
<Laugh>. Oh, get weirded out. I get weirded out. Just talking,
just you saying that <laugh> two weeks at the bottom of the ocean. Yeah. How,
how deep?
Uh, it was exactly, uh, 20,000 millimeters under the sea. It was about 60 feet,
which works out to be about.
Oh, only 60 feet. That's okay. Yeah, that doesn't freak me out too much.
I thought you were gonna say like miles. No.
I'd start panicking. No, it's about 60 feet, but,
but the cool thing was we stayed there for weeks. Wow. No, no. If you're normal,
if you normally scuba diving and you go down 60 feet,
you have 60 minutes and then you gotta come back up or,
or you get too much nitrogen in your blood and you're gonna get bent. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so, uh, so we, if you,
but it is not a problem. If you just stay, the problem is then if you stay,
you build up all that nitrogen in your blood. Now you can't go back at up.
So like, if you run out of air or you lose sight of your buddy or something,
you can't go to the surface cuz within a couple hours you'll be dead. Wow.
So you have to stay down there.
And we use cave diving techniques that we did a lot of training for to be safe.
And we had redundant tanks, redundant, manifolds, redundant, um, regulators.
And we could head valves that we can flip around so we can always make sure we
can get air without ever having to, in an emergency ever having to come up,
cuz coming up is not an option.
So how do you eventually get out?
It's a freaky thing. It takes about a day. And what you do is you take,
so we we're living in this habitat and it was kind of like a submarine on the
bottom of the ocean, but it didn't have a motor.
So it just like stuck on a floor, like a big, like a big, uh, cylinder.
And it had a hole cut in the side here. And um,
and the only thing that was keeping the ocean out was the air pressure inside.
Whoa, kinda like taking a cup and flipping it over,
putting it in the bathtub and trapping the air. Oh God.
And you just scuba dive on down and then you swim into that thing. And then if,
then once you pop up in that hole,
it's like you're in a swimming pool inside the habitat and then you just step
out into the habitat. Whoa. Is, have you ever seen the movie? Uh, the Abys yes.
It's like that. It's like that. Oh yeah.
How accurate is that movie?
I think, uh, what's the guy, what's the Navy seal in there. He gets like, like,
uh, gets crazy from.
The bend. Get like, like.
Uh, what they called it, uh, deep dementia or something. Yeah. Is that fake?
Yeah. That's.
Fake. <laugh> God Hollywood.
So this process of getting back to surface level,
how long you said it takes a day, what do you have to do? So.
We do is you close up that hole and you convert the habitat into a pressure
chamber. And what you do is you very,
very slowly bring the pressure back to sea level.
So you decrease the pressure and you slowly as if, as if you're slowly,
slowly going up in the water column and then over as you do it gradually, the,
the nitrogen slowly comes outta your blood and you could feel it,
it kind of tingles. Oh wow. Over the course of a day, you just lie.
You try to lie still in your bunk and just like read a book or something. And,
but you feel like this tingling. And then after about a day of that,
they get you all the way back to sea level slowly so that the nitrogen, wait,
you know what it is. It's like, if you take a can soda and you shake it up,
if you open a, you open the top quickly. Right, right.
But if you open the top really slowly and you let it slowly come out,
you don't get all the bubbles. Right. It's it's, it's that same effect.
Ah, that's a, that's a great analogy. Yeah. Oh,
what's freakier being in the bottom of the ocean or being up in space.
Up in space is more surreal. Yeah. Cuz the, the floating, the,
the earth out the window, the views are better.
But being it down there was pretty wild too. I,
I remember once we were doing this experiment where I had my crew mate and I had
an ultrasound and we're doing this telemedicine experiment.
So there were these docs in Houston looking at the screen,
but there's a delay and I'm supposed to find her kidney and I'm like searching
around for a kidney. And then, uh, I, I look up and I,
I look out the window and I see a six foot hammerhead shark right out the
window. And we have a guy in the water and I was, and,
and I dropped a giant FBO. I'm like F you know, and <affirmative> and all the,
all the, all the docs in Houston are freaking out. They're thinking like,
in a moment, they're gonna see her liver explode on the screen or something.
And they're like, what's that? What? How's the patient? How's the patient.
I'm like, patient's fine. Got a six foot hammer. Head out the window. <laugh>.
Yeah. That's gotta be really weird. Right.
You're you're in that thing in their world for how long? Two weeks.
Yeah.
So is that the weirdest animal that you saw is the hammerhead?
The scariest thing I saw was one night I was taking a dump. <laugh>
that's a true story. Uh, I, the way you do this, okay. Number one,
you just pee in the pool. Okay. But if you have, have to go, number two,
you go into the pool cuz you it's gonna, you don't wanna floater in your pool.
Right? That's of course like caddy shack. You don't want that. Right.
So what you do is you go, you, you don't take a tank,
you just take your mask and your fins, you go down naked,
you can, uh, we had a, we had a mixed gender crew, so I wore some trunks,
but it, you know, and then you just go down and you have to swim.
I don't know. It's like maybe 10, 15 feet. It's not that far. And there's a,
what we called a gazebo, which is just a little dome, uh, that has, uh,
air inside. Now you're out in the middle of the Atlantic ocean.
Like with no tank, no, in you're 60 feet down it's night.
You can't see a thing you're alone in the ocean,
but you can see this little gazebo,
you swim to that you pop in and then you got air into some valves.
You lead in some fresh air and then you hold on and you just,
and you take off your trunks and you just let it rip.
But the problem is the fish get accustomed to this. Oh Jesus.
Yeah. So they go there knowing that you're gonna poop.
As soon as you drop in the water at night,
it's like the dinner bell going off and there's like school. Yeah. Yeah.
Cuz this is feeding time.
Whoa. And so you feel them like, yeah. Pecking at.
The back door, the worst or the angel fish,
cuz that shape they can get like right up in there. Oh it's like not cool boy.
So you take your fin off and you're like whacking them. Oh Jesus.
Christ.
<Laugh> so that's all bad enough. But like,
but as you're doing that and you're in the pitch, black Atlantic ocean,
60 feet down, no scuba tank at night, at night with the,
the ocean, like, like lapping against the,
the dome and you're looking down and this endless black, you know,
just a black void.
And you're thinking about every single scary ocean movie,
like jaws, you know, the Meg, uh, whatever, the Abys,
all those scary movies. Right.
And you think about all this things that could be down there, you can't help,
but going through your head. So it's kind of freaky.
And then you finish and you put your mask back on.
And I took a big breath and I went down and I opened my eyes
in my, in my mask, in the darkness with my flashlight.
And I saw like right in front of me, this huge eyeball,
like about the size, I don't know of, of like a, of a,
of a saucer, you know,
like this big staring unlinking right at me.
And I freaked out, you know, I, I just tore off for the, for the pool,
for the moon pool and the habitat I jumped in there, I surfaced, I'm screaming,
I'm screaming. And my crew come running and thinking, I like,
I've been bit by a shark or something.
And I'm like giant fish <laugh> and it was, what was it?
It was a Goliath grouper.
Oh, I've seen those things before. They're enormous.
Size of a cow. It's like, yeah. Hundreds.
And hundreds of pounds, right? Yeah. Yeah. Oh my God.
Yeah. Scared to live in hell at me.
<Laugh> yeah. Those things could literally eat a person. Yeah.
It, it, uh, uh, I, it was big enough that's for sure.
And so it was just the sight of it. Scared the heck outta me. They.
So where were you were in the Atlantic? Yeah.
How far away were you from like floor? Like where were you at?
We were just off the coast of Largo.
Okay. Cause that's what I'm saying. Like they live down there. Yeah.
That's an enormous fish man. Huge.
I've seen videos of people catching them off of boats and it seems surreal.
I'll give you that. Yeah.
There you go. Yeah.
There's one, it's like a giant large mouth bass.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> that's what it's like, if you go bass fishing,
they're so similar to bass, like in.
The way they look. Yeah. Now imagine like Jesus Christ. Look at that thing.
Imagine like being eye to eye with that thing in the middle of the dark Atlantic
with no scuba tank.
<Laugh> they're delicious to it. Bet. Like,
I don't know if they taste as good as regular grouper. Uh.
I, I had.
Yeah, I wasn't gonna, so you get it differently.
I wasn't gonna find out I get the mouth on that thing. Good Lord.
I'll tell you another quick story about down there.
So I went out for a night dive once and I spent the,
the beautiful thing about saturation diving.
Like this is you can do basically infinite time. Bottom time.
You you're not living it to like 60 minutes.
You can stay out there for six hours, you know, whatever.
So I was not doing this night dive and I found this beautiful shrimp and it was
just spectacularly gorgeous. It was like, translucent, you could see through it,
you could see its organs move like internal organs, like doing their thing.
And I stared at it for at least like an hour,
just held my light on it and just there and stared at it.
And it was really beautiful.
And I come back inside the habitat and I'm kind of hungry and the best space
food we got is shrimp cocktail. <laugh>
and I fold that thing off the shelf and I'm like, oh, that looks good.
Then I'm like, I can't do it. I can't do it, man. You.
Felt bad. Cause you just saw the shrimp. Wow. I didn't.
That next day.
The next day. <laugh> yeah, but that for that day though, you really felt bad.
I.
Felt bad.
Mm wow. Group. Or you would've felt bad,
like a nice group or sandwich me.
I think I would. I would've been okay with that after <laugh>. Cause it was,
yeah.
I wonder if they've ever eaten people. Cause it seems like they could, I mean,
they swallowed giant fish. It seems like if you're not a large person,
they might be able to just suck you right in there.
<Laugh>.
You know.
See now if, if this happens to me again, I'm gonna be even more freaked out.
I feel like.
I've read that grouper have bitten people before. Yeah.
Like probably trying them out. Like if they get hung, if you're that big, you,
we have to eat so much.
Yeah. This nonstop. Yeah. Buffet for those guys and yeah.
So when you're down there and you're doing all the swimming,
you're using a rebreather, no regular you're using tanks, regular scuba tanks.
And what is the capacity of these tanks? Like how,
how long can you stay down to swimming around for? We.
We have two and, and we can isolate 'em in case we, one of them Springs a leak.
Uh, but you don't have that much more time than a standard scuba tank,
but we have is refill stations. Oh,
all around the floor with high pressure hoses.
So we have these quick disconnects on our,
on our system that you can plug in and sh fill it right back up.
And then you're good to go for, you know, another couple hours. So.
When you swim to go take, you have to do that.
You have to wear the tank or do you just hold.
Your breath? Just hold your breath. You're not going that far.
How far are you going? Uh, like 15 feet or so in total.
Pitch black.
Yeah, there is a light on the gazebo, but that's all